the European waltz is skated with a
continuous rise and fall of the knees
synchronized to the 3/4 time waltz music
all steps take three skating counts
the couple is in waltz or closed
position the man's right hand is on the
lady's left shoulder blade and their
arms are extended the lady's left hand
is placed on the inside of the man's
shoulder with their fingertips touching
his collarbone they must remain close
together without separating the position
they must stay square or opposite each
other
this is the basic European waltz 3 turn
the free foot is extended in back and
then brought to the skating heel for the
turn the skater steps down immediately
after the turn with the free foot
extended forward his left three turn is
followed by her left three turn the
three is turned between the partners
feet
here is an example of incorrect unison
the lady is stepping and staying inside
the man's curve instead of stepping
between the man's feet the three is
turned on the count of three want to
turn one two turn
the distance between the couple must be
constant the shoulders remain parallel
to each other throughout the leg
extensions must match throughout the
pattern should be on a curve between the
side lobes of the dance the man skates a
cross roll as he changes circle he
crosses his left foot over his right to
skate his forward cross roll on to the
left outside edge the impetus is gained
from the outside edge of the skating
foot as it becomes the free foot the
lady changes circles with a back
transitional stroke where the feet are
placed together rather than crossed it's
difficult for the lady to bring her free
foot in neatly and to keep her hips
underneath her
you